Here’s a quick tour you can follow to see what’s already wired up in the UI, including exactly where to run each command and whether the Python venv is needed.

1. Prepare backend data

Folder: app/backend
Environment: activate the venv (source .venv/bin/activate)
Commands:
alembic -c alembic.ini upgrade head – creates the tables (uses the default SQLite-on-disk / Postgres URL from settings; adjust KITCHEN_DATABASE_URL if needed).
python3 scripts/seed_demo.py – inserts demo shifts, resources, monthly parameters, and a draft scenario so the UI has real data.
2. Run the API

Still in app/backend with venv active:
uvicorn kitchen_scheduler.main:app --reload
The server listens on http://127.0.0.1:8000; you can open http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs to inspect all endpoints (system, resources, shifts, planning).
3. Start the frontend dev server

Folder: app/frontend
Environment: plain Node (no venv).
Command: npm run dev
Vite serves the SPA at http://localhost:5173 and proxies /api calls to the FastAPI server.
4. Explore the UI

Planning grid: main panel showing a resource-by-day matrix populated from the /planning/generate stub output. It uses whatever month you’re in (ISO YYYY-MM).

Summary panel: right-hand list summarizing worked vs contract hours (currently based on entry count × 8h).

Violations panel: shows scheduling rule warnings/violations returned by the backend (critical/warning/info). With seeded data you should see some messages from the stubbed evaluator.

Language toggle: top-right button switches between English and French; strings live in src/locales/en.json and fr.json.
If you want to manipulate master data while the UI is running:

Use the Swagger docs (/docs) or any REST client to hit /api/resources, /api/shifts, /api/system/monthly-parameters, /api/planning/scenarios.

After creating/updating records, refresh the UI; the Zustand store fetches resources and scenarios each time loadInitialData runs.
Current limitations to keep in mind:

The grid is read-only (no drag/drop editing yet).
Authentication is still stubbed; UI doesn’t prompt for login.
The scheduler is the deterministic “round-robin” stub, so plan output is simple, but the violation reporting is already hooked up.
Follow those steps and you’ll see exactly what’s available today. Let me know if you want to script any specific API calls or tweak the seed data.


Additional requirements 
Hello, now that we have started with master data, I assume the next step will be to go more in the
Planning part. I wonder if you have foreseen a certain way how we attack this?
I suppose we need to maintain the availabilities and preferences of the resources,
And then we need to maintain / review the rules and restrictions.
What do you think?



Maintain calendars by resource (vacation, preferred day off)
Name of resources in the same line in the planning overview
In the planning sheet it should be visible if this is a week end or a holiday
We need to have another table to maintain public holidays

Last status:

Exactly—now that master data is editable, the planning surface is the next priority. I’d approach it in phases so each layer stays manageable and testable:

1. Availability & Preferences

Extend the resource model (and UI) to capture time‑off, preferred/off limits shifts, language/skill tags, and contract balance targets.
Build dedicated views for vacation requests, recurring absences, and per-month availability overrides.
Wire these inputs into the scheduling service so the context passed to the generator reflects reality (percent availability is a blunt instrument right now).
2. Rule & Restriction Management

Expose rule sets in a richer admin interface: show current thresholds, severity (hard vs soft), and version history.
Allow planners to clone or tweak rules per scenario/month, with validation (e.g., min ≤ max).
Surface impact previews: as users adjust a rule, display how many entries in the last plan would violate it.
3. Scenario Design & Workflow

Let planners define scenarios explicitly—select resources, choose active rule sets, set monthly parameters.
Show a scenario timeline (draft → published) with version comparisons (hours, violations, coverage).
Add manual editing tools in the grid (drag-drop, shift assignment palette) with audit logging.
4. Scheduling Engine Evolution

Replace the stub generator with a rule-aware solver that:
Honors hard constraints (availability, max hours, role quotas).
Minimizes soft violation penalties (preferences, desired rest patterns).
Supports re-optimizing only parts of the plan after manual changes.
5. Insight & Review

Introduce dashboards: coverage metrics, overtime risk, violation trendline per scenario.
Provide “what-if” tools (e.g., temporarily remove a resource, tighten a rule) to preview the effect before committing.
We can tackle these in parallel tracks (data modeling, UI, solver). If you’d like, I can start by mapping the exact fields and endpoints for availability/preferences so we can ship that slice next. Once that’s in place, we handle rule management with proper versioning, then loop back to the planner UX and algorithm.

Let me know which chunk you’d like to focus on first, and I’ll draft the concrete tasks.

overall, yes. Regarding 1: vacation request. I would like to add, that this tool here will be just a planning tool. The vacation will have been decided already in another tool. So we can prepare just a way to maintain the vacations or absence days which have been decided already.
It reminds me we might need a calendar for official holidays as well. Can you pre-populate something with official holidays of Switzerland, for the "canton de vaud"?



Hello, can we adopt the seed program, please. The initial situation should be, that all resources from the list are already scheduled to work, according to their availability. I think this corresponds much more to the likely real situation. Then the planner would just make the fine-tuning where there are conflicts or overbooking for particular days. It will make the management of all the violation messages much more realistic.
What do you think?















