Hello, I would like you to help me plan and then later create a business application.
This is a program which helps with "scheduling" of resources, shifts, for a professional kitchen.

In this first phase, I would like you to help me to structure the requirement first.
In a second phase, I will ask you to help me formulate prompts for Codex.
I am working in VS code, with the Codex Assistant.

Later on, the application should be available in French and English.
But for formulating the requirements, I want to interact with you in English.

In the following, I will start to put together the requirements, and I would like you to help me to sort it, group it, 
And crosscheck it for consistency, so in order to prepare a consistent skeleton of requirements.

Please see the details here below.

Technial requirements
I would like to link this to Git Hub
At the end I would like this to be hosted on a server (for example fly.io)
It should be like a web site
With authorisation
I would like to potentially create an app later on
There should be the possibility to have the site / app in multiple languages.
At least English and French
All elements, variables, rules, should be visible, and it should be possible to maintain the rules / master data

Business Requirements
I would like to create a program which helps with "scheduling" of resources, shifts, for a professional kitchen.

For referene, I will provide here a screenshot of how such a planning looks like today.
The future planning can be different, but just so that you can have a reference of what is there today.

The objective of this exercise is to find the best possible combination of resources,
Which makes the planning as linear as possible.

It should make sure at the same time
- that the resources do not work more as they can
- and also that they do not work less compared to what they can


There should be the possibility to create a suggestion for a monthly plan.
This plan needs to take into consideration a number of restrictions, which I will describe further down.
The planning should be by resource and day.
The plan by resource and day should be indicated with a certain "Shift Code".
I will describe the Shift Codes further down.
The planning needs to take into consideration the vacation planning by resource.
There should be the possibility to import or copy/paste the vacation plan of a resource.
Resources and their type needs to be maintained, I will provide details on this further down.
Based on the inputs of the schedule, the summarised hours per resource and month should be calculated.

In the following, I will describe the details:

Resources.
I will provide the descriptions of the resources in French and English
The application should have a menue / a place, where the details per resource can be maintained.
Type of Resource: 
cuisinier → cook / chef
aide cuisinier → kitchen assistant / assistant cook
casserolier → dishwasher / pot washer (literally “person who washes pots and pans”)
apprenti → apprentice / trainee

Each resource can have a % of availability/deployment.
For example
100%
80%

There should be the possibility to maintain how many of each resource are part of the overall resource pool
For example
7 cooks
3 kitchen assistants
2 pot washers
2 apprentice / trainee
1 joker/jumper-cook (his roll is to jump in, when there are not enough cooks, in particular on week ends)


Restrictions / Rules for planning
Number of hours of work per month 174:18
In this case, this means 174 hours and 18 minutes.
This is a value which the user can maintain for every month / year.
So there needs to be a list of month / year, where this information can be maintained.
It can be different every month.

Shift Types:
Shift 1: From 7:00 - 16:15
Shift 4: from 7:15 - 19:15
Shift 10: from 10:15 - 19:30
Shift 8: from 8:00 - 17:15

For 1 resource / employee, there is the limit of 50 hours by week, which cannot be exceeded
1 resource can work on up to 6 calendar days per week
1 resource should not work on 6 subsequent days per week
Therefore, also the planning of a previous week needs to be taken into consideration

Each resource should have 2 subsequent days "off" per month.
Those subsequent days should be 
- either a Saturday and Sunday
- or a Sunday and Monday

If a resource does work on 6 days by week, the resource can do a so called "prime" shift.
A "prime" shift is one of the above shift types, where the resource starts 1 h later.
Example: shift type 1 is from 7:00 - 16:15.
A "prime" of shift 1 is 08:00 - 16:15.
As an exception, it is not possible to perform a "prime" for shift type 4 (7:15 - 19:15).

Minimum requirements for 1 day of work:
There need to be at least 7 resources.
Composed of at least
1 pot washer
1 -2 kitchen assistants
1 apprentice / trainee
The rest should be cooks

For the cooks, at least 1 of them need to do a shift type 4
The other profiles should do a shift type 1
If there is only 1 pot washers, he should do a shift type 10
If there are 2 pot washers, they should be doing 1 shift type 10 and the other a shift type 8

Here some more requirements with reference to the vacations:
Not more than 4 resources should be on vacation at the same time
The public holidays should be visible as well
Each resource should have the possibility to indicate days, where they prefer to have a free time, which means, a day or half day when they are absent.
This does not mean that they are on vacation, but it means they are not planned for work at this point in time.
In French the term for this is "desir de repos".
Each resource can indicate 3 of those "desire de repos" per month.
In the plan, this can be considerate, if possible, but if there is no other way, this might be overruled.

From a timing perspective, the plan for the following month should be ready on the 15th day of the month before.
So example, on October 15th, I want to have the plan for November ready.










